Whats new 8.7 (#3111)
elastic/security-docs: docs/whats-new.asciidoc

* When filters are active, a *Clear filters* button now appears to help quickly remove all filters.
* Filters and sorting now persist after you navigate away from and back to the page until you remove them manually. They also persist when you share the page URL.
* There is now a dedicated *Enabled rules / Disabled rules* button to quickly view only enabled or disabled rules.

*Alert suppression time window for custom query rules*

You can now {security-guide}/alert-suppression.html[suppress] custom query rule alerts during a specific time window to limit alert volume and reduce alert noise. Duplicate alerts within that time window will be grouped.

*Connectors can be exported and imported with rules*

Now, when you {security-guide}/rules-ui-management.html#import-export-rules-ui[export and import] a rule that uses action connectors, you don't need to handle the connectors separately. Note that sensitive information about the connector (such as authentication credentials) is not included in the export file. You must re-add missing connector details after importing detection rules.

*Cross-cluster search support for indicator match rules*

> You can now query data in remote clusters and cold-tier data for index patterns specified in indicator match rules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can now query data in remote clusters and cold-tier data using index patterns specified in indicator match rules.
```

*Enhancements to rule preview*

You can now risize the {security-guide}/rules-ui-create.html#preview-rules[Rule preview] panel.

*New Torq connector for rule actions*

There's a new Torq connector you can select when configuring rule actions. You must have at least a https://www.elastic.co/pricing[Platinum subscription] to use this connector.

**Exceptions enhancements**

There are several enhancements and UI improvements to rule exceptions:

> * When {security-guide}/add-exceptions.html#detection-rule-exceptions[adding a rule exception], you can set an expiration date for the exception so it only temporarily applies. You can view active and expired exceptions under the *Rule exceptions* tab and choose whether to include expired exceptions when exporting rules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* When {security-guide}/add-exceptions.html#detection-rule-exceptions[adding a rule exception], you can make it temporary by setting an expiration date and time. You can view active and expired exceptions under the *Rule exceptions* tab and choose whether to include expired exceptions when exporting rules.
```

* If a field has mapping conflicts, it has a warning icon (image:images/field-warning-icon.png[Field conflict warning icon,13,13]) and {security-guide}/ts-detection-rules.html#rule-exceptions-field-conflicts[message] that describes the conflicts. You can use this information to prevent exception errors and resolve mapping problems.
* The *Manage rules* button has been renamed to *Link rules*, and the *Import list* button has been renamed to *Import value list*.

*{ml-cap} job enhancements*

> {ml-cap} job names are used throughout the {security-app} instead of job IDs so you can quickly know which {ml-cap} jobs you're interacting with.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{ml-cap} job names now appear instead of job IDs throughout the {security-app} so you can quickly know which {ml-cap} jobs you're interacting with.
```

*Prebuilt rule updates*

> Check out the {security-guide}/prebuilt-rule-8-7-1-prebuilt-rules-8-7-1-summary.html[latest updates] to prebuilt rules. To download the latest updates, refer to the instructions in {security-guide}/rules-ui-management.html#download-prebuilt-rules[Download latest Elastic prebuilt rules]. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check out the {security-guide}/prebuilt-rule-8-7-1-prebuilt-rules-8-7-1-summary.html[latest updates] to prebuilt rules. To download the latest updates, refer to {security-guide}/rules-ui-management.html#download-prebuilt-rules[Download latest Elastic prebuilt rules]. 
```

[float]
== New integrations 

The following security integrations have been added in 8.7: 

* AuditD
* Content Delivery Network
* Credential Management
* Database
* EDR/XDR
* Email Security
* Firewall
* Identity & Access Management
* Threat Intelligence
* Vulnerability Management

The Integrations page also has improved categorization and search functionality.

[role="screenshot"]
image::whats-new/images/8.7/integrations.png[Integrations page]

[float]
== Role-based access control (RBAC) for response actions

New Endpoint management feature privileges in {kib} allow admins to have more granular control over {security-guide}/endpoint-management-req.html[{elastic-defend} features]. Role-based access can now be managed for the following:

* Hosts running {elastic-defend}
* Trusted applications
* Host isolation exceptions
* Blocklist entries
* Event filters
* {elastic-defend} policies
* File-related operations in the response console

[role="screenshot"]
image::whats-new/images/8.7/endpoint-privileges.png[Role-based access controls, 75%]

[float]
== Response console action enhancements

> A new `get file` {security-guide}/response-actions.html[response console] action allows you to retrieve and download a file from a host. Files are downloaded in a password-protected `.zip` archive to prevent the file from running.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A new `get file` {security-guide}/response-actions.html[response console] action allows you to retrieve and download a file from a host. Files are downloaded in a password-protected `.zip` archive to prevent them from running.
```

[float]
== Data Quality dashboard

The {security-guide}/data-quality-dash.html[Data Quality] dashboard allows you to quickly check one or several indices for unmapped fields or fields with mapping conflicts, and makes it easy to track and share the results.

[role="screenshot"]
image::whats-new/images/8.7/data-qual-dash.png[Data Quality dashboard]

[float]
== Alerts enhancements

*Summary visualization for key performance indicators (KPIs)*

The new {security-guide}/visualize-alerts.html#_summary[summary visualization] on the Alerts page shows how alerts are distributed across severity levels, rule names, and specified fields such as `host.name`. You can hover and click on elements within the summary to add filters with those values to the Alerts page.

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/alert-page-visualizations.png[Alerts page with visualizations section highlighted]

> You can also minimize the visualization section and display a summary of key information instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also minimize the visualization section to display a summary of key information instead.
```

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/alert-page-viz-collapsed.png[Alerts page with visualizations section collapsed]

*Alert grouping*

> Now in beta, you can {security-guide}/alerts-ui-manage.html#group-alerts[group alerts] by rule name, host name, user name, source IP address, or any other field. Each group displays information such as the alerts' severity and how many users, hosts, and alerts are in the group, and you can expand a group to display its alerts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now in beta, this feature allows you to {security-guide}/alerts-ui-manage.html#group-alerts[group alerts] by rule name, host name, user name, source IP address, or any other field. Each group displays information such as the alerts' severity and how many users, hosts, and alerts are in the group, and you can expand a group to display its alerts.
```

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/group-alerts.png[Alerts table with Group alerts by drop-down]

[float]
== Interactive investigation guides query builder UI

> {security-guide}/interactive-investigation-guides.html[Interactive investigation guides] (a technical preview feature introduced in 8.6) are now easier to configure with a new query builder UI. Use the form to create filters and build an investigation query, and the syntax is automatically generated and added to the investigation guide editor. The syntax is rendered as a clickable action button that launches the query in Timeline.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The new query builder UI makes it easier to configure {security-guide}/interactive-investigation-guides.html[Interactive investigation guides] (a technical preview feature introduced in 8.6). When you use it to create filters and build an investigation query, syntax is automatically added to the investigation guide editor, rendered as a clickable action button that launches the query in Timeline.
```

[float]
== Threat intelligence enhancements

*Block hashes and malicious files*

You can now {security-guide}/indicators-of-compromise.html#add-indicator-to-blocklist[add indicator values] to the blocklist to prevent selected applications from running on your hosts. You can use MD5, SHA-1, or SHA-256 hash values from `file` type indicators.

*Improvements to indicators*

There are several enhancements and UI improvements to indicators:

* When you investigate an indicator in Timeline, the query's time range is set to seven days before and after the indicator's `timestamp`.
* You can now delete values entered into the *Stack by* field in the Trend chart.
* When you open the Indicator table's field browser, the `agent`, `base`, and `event` field categories are preselected to narrow the scope of relevant fields.
* The Indicator details flyout now has the *Overview* and *Table* tabs when you open indicator details from a case comment.

[float]
== Cases enhancements

*Cases can be shared*

> Each case has a universally unique identifier (UUID) that you can {security-guide}/cases-open-manage.html#cases-copy-case-uuid[copy and share]. You can access a case's UUID from the Cases or or case details pages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each case now has a universal unique identifier (UUID) that you can {security-guide}/cases-open-manage.html#cases-copy-case-uuid[copy and share]. You can access a case's UUID from the Cases page or the case details page.
```

[role="screenshot"]
image::whats-new/images/8.7/cases-copy-case-id.png[Copy Case ID option in More actions menu 40%,40%]

*Enhancements to cases*

Several changes have been made to the Cases table to improve usability:

* Now you can bulk edit assignees.
* The new *Updated on* column shows the last time cases were modified.
* The *Status*, *Severity*, and *Name* columns are sortable.
* Any filters and sorting you apply to the table persist in the browser.

[float]
== Osquery enhancements

*Event and alert data can be dynamically transferred into Osquery queries*

> Instead of hard-coding alert and event values into Osquery queries, you can now use {security-guide}/osquery-placeholder-fields.html[placeholder fields] to dynamically pass this data into queries. Placeholder fields function like parameters can be used to build flexible and reusable queries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead of hard-coding alert and event values into Osquery queries, you can now use {security-guide}/osquery-placeholder-fields.html[placeholder fields] to dynamically pass this data into queries. Placeholder fields function like parameters and can be used to build flexible and reusable queries.
```

> *Add Osquery queries from the rule's investigation guide to Osquery Response Action*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Add Osquery queries from a rule's investigation guide to the Osquery Response Action*
```

Now, if a rule uses an Osquery query in its investigation guide, you can quickly add the query to the rule's {security-guide}/osquery-response-action.html#add-osquery-response-action[Osquery Response Action]  when editing it.

[float]
== Create rules from Timelines

> If a saved Timeline contains a KQL or EQL query, a new option in the Timelines page allows you to create a detection rule using that query. For example, create an event correlation rule from a Timeline using an EQL query.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a saved Timeline contains a KQL or EQL query, a new option in the Timelines page allows you to create a detection rule using that query. For example, to create an event correlation rule from a Timeline that includes an EQL query.
```

[float]
== Detection rules enhancements

*Alert suppression time window for custom query rules*

You can now {security-guide}/alert-suppression.html[suppress] custom query rule alerts during a specific time window to limit alert volume and further reduce alert noise. Duplicate alerts within that time window will be grouped.

*Connectors can be exported and imported with rules*

Now, when you {security-guide}/rules-ui-management.html#import-export-rules-ui[export and import] a rule that uses action connectors you don't need to handle the connectors separately. Note that sensitive information about the connector (such as authentication credentials) is not included in the export file. You must re-add missing connector details after importing detection rules.

*Cross-cluster search is supported for indicator match rules*

You can now query data in remote clusters and cold-tier data for index patterns specified in indicator match rules.

*Enhancements to rule preview*

The {security-guide}/rules-ui-create.html#preview-rules[Rule preview] panel can be resized.

> *New Torq connector for rule actions* 

Author: @jmikell821 I'm not sure whether we should include this. When I talked to @lcawl ~3 weeks ago about documenting this in our release docs (comment [here](https://github.com/elastic/security-docs/pull/3049#discussion_r1131714010)), we agreed it was prob best to only mention the connector in the release notes. But then this morning, I noticed that this new connector was being highlighted as a new feature in the 8.7 Security TOI. How should we handle documenting this new connector?

Reviewer 2: @nastasha-solomon I think it's fine to just mention this in release notes. Thanks for checking!

* Hosts running {elastic-defend}
* Trusted applications
* Host isolation exceptions
* Blocklist entries
* Event filters
* {elastic-defend} policies
* File-related operations in the response console

[role="screenshot"]
image::whats-new/images/8.7/endpoint-privileges.png[Role-based access controls, 75%]

[float]
== Response console action enhancements

A new `get file` {security-guide}/response-actions.html[response console] action allows you to retrieve and download a file from a host. Files are downloaded in a password-protected `.zip` archive to prevent the file from running. 

[float]
== Data Quality dashboard 

The {security-guide}/data-quality-dash.html[Data Quality] dashboard allows you to quickly check one or many indices for unmapped fields or fields with mapping conflicts, and makes it easy to track and share the results. 

[role="screenshot"]
image::whats-new/images/8.7/data-qual-dash.png[Data Quality dashboard]

[float]
== Exceptions enhancements

There are several enhancements and UI improvements to rule exceptions:

> * When {security-guide}/detections-ui-exceptions.html#detection-rule-exceptions[adding a rule exception], you can set an expiration date for the exception so it only temporarily applies. You can view active and expired exceptions under the *Rule exceptions* tab and choose whether to include expired exceptions when exporting rules.

Author: ```suggestion
* When {security-guide}/add-exceptions.html#detection-rule-exceptions[adding a rule exception], you can set an expiration date for the exception so it only temporarily applies. You can view active and expired exceptions under the *Rule exceptions* tab and choose whether to include expired exceptions when exporting rules.
```

Reviewer 3: applied in https://github.com/elastic/security-docs/pull/3111/commits/bb1604b802247c73626d7f4cb19872fc5ba12de9
